---
layout: post
title:  "Permitted Signs"
date:   2013-08-26 17:38:05
categories: nyc maps opendata
---

Well now, after [last week's][accidental-graffiti] exploration of a rather stale
dataset on NYC's [open data portal][portal], it's exciting to work with one that
appears to actually be updated daily. I'm talking about the DOB's 
[Sign Application Filings dataset][data], some of which is explained in this
[dictionary][dict] of job statuses and permit types. In the DOB's words, the
dataset is:

> A list of sign applications filed for a particular day and associated data.

When an entity is looking to put a sign on the exterior of a building, that 
request pops through this dataset at some point. If you haven't posted a sign in
New York, you probably don't know that you need [permits][] to do that,
including a special one for illuminated signs, and there are licensed Sign
Hangers that you have to go through. [Some hangers][special] are "master" and 
some are "special" and I have no idea what either means.

Since the data is constantly updated, everything I say here is probably out of 
date already, but at the time of downloading there were nearly 1300 records. 
Those records had last been touched between April 25, 2013, and August 19, 2013.

There are a bunch of potentially useful fields in this dataset, including how
much a permit costs and how far a location is from a park or highway (different 
regulations on these, though the fields are mostly empty). I'm sure there are 
others, but once I ran into **Text on Sign** I stopped looking at anything else.
Maybe you'll find other bits of the data that are worth looking at?

Okay I'm gonna skip straight to the map now. Some details on how I made it are
below it.

### Sign permit application filings with some kind of activity in the past four months or so:
<iframe width='100%' height='400' frameborder='0' src='http://eric.cartodb.com/viz/22a36ecc-0eb6-11e3-8f2f-5404a6a69006/embed_map?title=false&description=false&search=false&shareable=false&cartodb_logo=true&layer_selector=false&legends=false&scrollwheel=true&sublayer_options=1&sql=SELECT%20%0A%20%20%20%20house%2C%0A%20%20%20%20street_name%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(cartodb_id)%20AS%20cartodb_id%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(the_geom)%20AS%20the_geom%2C%20%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(the_geom_webmercator)%20AS%20the_geom_webmercator%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(text_on_sign)%20AS%20text_on_sign%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MAX(text_occurrences)%20AS%20text_occurrences%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(rotation)%20AS%20rotation%0AFROM%20sign_application_filings%0AWHERE%20text_on_sign%20!%3D%20''%0AGROUP%20BY%20house%2C%20street_name%2C%20text_on_sign&sw_lat=40.64000942809261&sw_lon=-74.19204711914062&ne_lat=40.883409680091006&ne_lon=-73.53286743164062'></iframe>

Blue is least common, red is most common. Zoom in a bit. I had a hard time
making these look good at a distance, but I tried balancing a view of the shape
of the city with a view of the signs.

There's something entertaining about reading through these sign-texts that were
most likely written on a form, paper or electronic, and have been shepherded
through the DOB's databases and regulations. I find the stand-in text of "LOGO"
and "PHONE NUMBER" to be especially entertaining as digital, neon signs.

Also, the translation errors like the one below. I can't imagine someone made a
sign that says "DEALS YOUR 1ST STOP FOR SAVING?" but there's a nearly identical
one to the west a bit, so who knows.

<iframe width='100%' height='400' frameborder='0' src='http://eric.cartodb.com/viz/77e7ea98-0baf-11e3-8684-5404a6a69006/embed_map?title=false&description=false&search=false&shareable=false&cartodb_logo=true&layer_selector=false&legends=false&scrollwheel=true&sublayer_options=1&sql=SELECT%20%0A%20%20%20%20house%2C%0A%20%20%20%20street_name%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(cartodb_id)%20AS%20cartodb_id%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(the_geom)%20AS%20the_geom%2C%20%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(the_geom_webmercator)%20AS%20the_geom_webmercator%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(text_on_sign)%20AS%20text_on_sign%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MAX(text_occurrences)%20AS%20text_occurrences%2C%0A%20%20%20%20MIN(rotation)%20AS%20rotation%0AFROM%20sign_application_filings%0AWHERE%20text_on_sign%20!%3D%20''%0AGROUP%20BY%20house%2C%20street_name%2C%20text_on_sign&sw_lat=40.62646106367355&sw_lon=-73.97712707519531&ne_lat=40.687407052121316&ne_lon=-73.81233215332031'></iframe>


### Methods

For the curious, here are the steps I took:

1. Download the [CSV][data] and remove spaces from the headers.
1. Upload into [CartoDB][]
1.  Geocode the addresses of the locations. Unfortunately, no coordinates are
    given in the database so I couldn't reproject as I did with the 
    [graffiti locations][accidental-graffiti] data. Also it would be great to be
    able to geocode using the borough, block, and lot (BBL) numbers of the 
    records, but MapPLUTO is too big for my account. It would be extremely
    useful if CartoDB made a function like their 
    [reverse geocoder][reverse-geocoder] that is based on MapPLUTO.
1.  Add a rotation column and [random][]ly populate it.
1.  Add a text\_occurrences column to track how frequently the text shows up in
    the dataset. I added the `DISTINCT(house, street_name)` because locations can 
    show up multiple times depending on which stage in the permitting process they
    are in. I'm sure there are nicer ways to do this, but accuracy wasn't exactly
    paramount and this got me close enough:

    {% gist 6348685 %}

1. Select just the features we want. The ones with text on the signs, namely,
    preferably once per address:

    {% gist 6348691 %}

1.  Style the map. Simulating the neon sign look by rendering the labels twice
    was fun, and this was generally a good excuse to become more familiar with
    how [text properties][text] work in CartoCSS and CartoDB. 

    The basic idea is to render the text two times: once (`::outer`) with a low 
    opacity, a halo, and darker color to represent the glow of the sign; 
    another time (`::inner`) more brightly and boldly to represent the sign 
    itself.

    Here is the full CartoCSS for the above map. Please do copy, change, 
    critique, etc.

    {% gist 6348642 %}

Thanks to the DOB for posting and maintaining a really solid dataset!

[accidental-graffiti]: /nyc/maps/opendata/2013/08/18/graffiti-is-intentional.html
[portal]: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/
[data]: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Housing-Development/Sign-Application-Filings/nyis-y4yr
[dict]: http://www.nyc.gov/html/dob/downloads/pdf/bisjobstatus.pdf
[permits]: http://www.nyc.gov/html/dob/html/development/install_sign.shtml
[special]: http://www.nyc.gov/html/dob/downloads/pdf/sign_hanger.pdf
[CartoDB]: http://cartodb.com
[reverse-geocoder]: http://blog.cartodb.com/post/58247530913/free-geocoder-for-new-york-based-on-pluto-open-data
[random]: http://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/functions-math.html
[text]: http://www.mapbox.com/carto/api/2.1.0/#text
